After my last performance, the people came up to me and said,
my God, what a fine job you did.
I determined, OK, I'd come up here and do a disaster,
so I'd never have to do it again.
Actually, the background for this is one of the fellows who was going to come down
was David Mason, who played Captain Cat a few years ago.
David was going to come down, and a few of you have been joining him.
However, he's involved in the World Curbine Championship,
which was actually the last one.
David's holding up the bar.
However, before I proceed and before you throw me out,
I must tell you something.
We've had gmandas in Vancouver, we've had Nasser Lanz in Vancouver.
I want to tell you something.
We've never had Nasser Lanz like this.
We have.
What? Have they told the truth?
Another thing that struck me tonight, I was desperately searching
to pay for my board, I'd said to Bob, OK, I'll do something.
That's when I started thinking of this wanglish stuff.
I thought I'd cut the teal.
To be very frank, I much prefer this thing.
We had it in David's basic, that's what it was in David's day, dinner
on February 28th at the Vancouver UBC Golf Course.
There were over 200 people there.
We all said it was a very good Sandinista day dinner.
The extraordinary thing is in Vancouver at the moment,
very posh, very British Consul General, he's Welsh.
He's from Hubert.
The good fellow, he came to the Sandinista day dinner.
You could see the boy carrying them away.
He gave the toast well.
At the end of the evening he was singing to us and reading us.
It's quite amusing to see the stiff upper lip, but you might see mellow.
I'm going to create this disaster, which I told you about.
By doing this, I'm indebted to John Edwards.
It's a little wimpy actually. Please tell me if you've done nothing.
It's a tale as it would be told in Wenglish.
Again, I must remind you, half of Wales, the population of Wales,
doesn't have much Welsh culture at all.
This is how a tale would have been told in Wenglish.
If I'm going to create a disaster, then I want you to be a part of it.
In this tale, in Wales, they love to make exclamations.
When you do something, they go, well, well, well.
Now, good people, I'm going to put a cap on you.
When I raise my cap, you've got to say, well, well, well.
There's also a part in it where when I raise this to my eyes,
you've got to go, oh.
Now, one of the aspects of Wenglish is,
they drop their H's, or H's if you say it right.
They drop their H's.
So, in my narration, and I'm totally indebted to John Edwards,
not totally, sorry, put some stuff in there.
In my narration, in the towns of this tale,
I'm going to have to try and remember to drop me H's.
Now, if you can catch me not having dropped an H,
then I see here, from my pocket money,
I've got one beer ticket left, right, even though.
But there's also a catch, you see.
If I catch you not going, well, well, well,
then I get a beer of you, right?
It's a very, what much we better practice before we go.
You've got to put a feeling into, well, well, well.
And then we're good to go.
This is a tale, I've seen, I've got a pint of you,
I've been losing this beer ticket straight away,
oh, thank you, thank you.
Very sad tale this, of Llywelyn and Gellert.
You've all heard the story of Llywelyn,
Prince of Wales, haven't you?
But you'll remember, he lived many years ago, he did,
when we had our own Prince of Wales,
not one of those from our England wave.
Well, well, well.
No, no, no, no folks, you've got it right.
I'll have to do that again, try.
Well, well, well.
You'll come out.
This is the story of Llywelyn and his beautiful dog Gellert.
And I've got to warn you, it's a hell of a sad story.
Oh.
So, have your Anki ready in case.
Llywelyn had been given Gellert back by his father-in-law,
King John of England.
Well, well.
Great dog he was, by all accounts.
A real Bremmer, do they do say.
Llywelyn had taken a real fancy to him.
Nobody could touch him when there was an Anton in the woods,
and mountains around was Llywelyn and his castle.
Like a winky he was, fearless he was, man.
It isn't, but he was like a lamb around the house.
Real gentle he was, what I tell you.
You could do anything with him.
You could, must have been a real smasher.
The kind you don't see every day, is it?
Well, well, well.
This particular day, when there was all set
to go out for a day's hunting,
the huntsman blew his horn, took all the owls together,
and all the others came running out right off.
But will you credit it, there was no sign of Gellert.
Well, well, well.
Oy, oy, must be something up, said the prince.
Must be something up.
But we can't hang around here for any longer,
because it looks like we'll come under rain.
Fair play.
You would see him when they, to get back from the hunt.
They didn't have much luck on that hunt that day.
Who got it? You did?
Sorry, the only one I got.
Got any more money, love?
They didn't have much luck on the hunt that day.
It was obviously going to have done with Gellert back at that hunt.
Oh, my God.
They didn't seem to be much shape to do anything without him.
Now, well, he was down in the dumps proper
when they all got home from a bit of grub.
What a real second he had with hunting that day.
Well, well, well.
As the prince jumped down from his horse,
out came Gellert to meet him.
Master wagged his tail back and forth, back and forth.
Back and forth.
Gellert came out to meet him, wagging his tail back and forth, back and forth.
Jumping up and down, he was all over the moon.
He was thrilled to bet to get his master home to his captor's house.
Oi! Good boy!
Yeah, boy, such a well-in. Yeah, boy.
But when he bent down to stroke the dog
and make a bit of fuss about him like it shook him rigid,
the owens' jaws and fangs were all dripping with blood
and a real sight for so eyes he looked.
The prince, I can tell you, spoke sharp to the dog.
Worried sick he was now about his little toot of a baby's son, see,
because he used to leave Gellert in charge of the little toot, now and again, off and on.
He rushed up the stairs, taking two and three by the time to find his little boy,
and he was flabbergasted to see the walls and floor covered with blood.
Dear Maury said, had everybody looked, it was shanty bang,
blood to be had all over the place, and as he rushed frantic from moon to moon,
his dad was in his boots, because he couldn't find hide nor air of his son.
He shouted and he shouted for all he was worth, but Maury answered.
On he went, shouted and bawling and getting more work up all the time,
as he went rushing about the whole place,
and an eye low for his buck and back, he didn't know which way to turn,
really, worked himself up into a real prasmy head.
And at last he found his baby's cot, all turned over on his side, all skewed over it was,
but no sign of the boy, and the whole place was in hell of a mess.
Then, a well-dead and sore killer, standing by his side, fair play,
the fearful owned and left his master for a minute, like a shadow in a beak.
You've owned a bell, he said, you've owned a bell, you've killed my son, he said.
There was me thinking I could trust you, pumping mad he was, pumping mad he was.
By then, pumping mad he was, by then he had to have his revenge.
He pulled out his sword and he pushed it right down into poor old Gillard's eye.
You should have seen him, you should have seen the look in Gillard's eye.
You should have heard him howl.
You should have seen him sank down and die.
What with all the palaver, with Gillard whining and whining and whining and dying.
He died and Llewellyn shouting fit to burst.
It's not surprising that when all was over, the prince could hear another sound now.
Faint it was, but enough for him to hear it tidy.
It was obvious that the little toot was crying.
In two shapes, Llewellyn was over the other side of the room,
and there he found his baby son safe and sound, with a scratch on his bottom, a mark on his clothes.
And underneath the couch was lying there was a big, huge, huge wolf.
You could tell he hadn't been dead that long.
Now of course, Llewellyn could see what had happened.
It dawned on him like he could see how Gillard had got himself covered with blood.
Fighting and killing the wolf to stop him getting at the little one.
Hero you are, hero.
Not a rogue, Llewellyn had thought.
The prince was in hell of a state.
He was in hell of a state.
And you can imagine, you could see how hasty he had been,
and how he had gone and killed poor Gillard when he was down doing his job tidy,
and protecting his son from harm.
But there was no use carrying on aching and tucking,
and saying, pray, old Gillard.
If only I'd stopped to think a minute, I'd kill the finest dog I've ever had.
The wicked deed had been done,
and there was nothing you could do now to put things right for poor old Gillard.
So Llewellyn was sorry in his heart now,
and he had a great big grave made for Gillard,
and they got to put up a monument over it,
and there he hung his hunting horn and his spear to show them how sorry he was for what he'd done.
If you're ever up in that part of Wales,
you'd better be ready to be in the woods,
and you'd better be ready to be in the woods.
If you're ever up in that part of Wales,
have a look for a little place called Beard Gillard.
That's where you will find where Gillard is buried,
because that's what it means in Welsh.
Beard Gillard, Gillard's grave.
And by the way, if I can tell you one of my wanglish,
as with all lovely tales from Wales, there's a moral to it,
and the moral to this one is,
if you find yourself in a bloody mess,
don't take a stab at cleaning it up.